# Getting-and-Cleaning-Data-Course-Project 
## Working with cellphones accelerometers data
The purpose of this project is to prepare tidy data that can be used for later analysis. 

One of the most exciting areas in all of data science right now is wearable computing - see for example this article . Companies like Fitbit, Nike, and Jawbone Up are racing to develop the most advanced algorithms to attract new users. The data linked to from the course website represent data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained:

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

Here are the data for the project:

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

The scrip run_analysis.R that does the following.

1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.
5. From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
6. Write the file tidydata.txt  from the data set in step 5.

## Repository Files & Folders Description
1. README.RD -> The one you are reading now. Contain the information on what the repository'files do.
2. CodeBook -> Contain information about the data files, structure, units and contents
3. UCHI HAR Dataset - > folder that contain the original files used by run_analysis.R Scrip
4. Getting-and-cleaning-Data-Course-Project.Rproj -> RStudio project file for this project
5. tidydata.txt -> File generated by run_analysis.R containing the average values of each variable grouped by activity and subject.


